["Getting Started"]
# Getting Started
To begin writing your ArOZ Online Web, you need basic web programming skills. In this tutorial, we have already assumed you know how to program in HTML, CSS, Javascript and PHP.
If not, we recommend you to get yourself famililarize with these technology by building your own website first before moving to this tutorial.

For a basic ArOZ Online WebApp / Module, you need to firstly create a folder in the AOR and name the folder as the name of your WebApp.
For example, "Audio", "Video" or "Photo". We do not recommend naming the folder with space or any special characters as there might be a higher chances to have bugs.

Lets assume the app we are making is call floppybird. So you would need to create a folder in AOR with the following name.

```
FloppyBird
```

Next, you need to create the basic file structure for your module. In the most simpliest module, you would need the following files. 
The followings are the files required for an ArOZ Online Module with path respective to the module folder.

```
index.php
description.txt
img/function_icon.png
```

The following are recommended but not necessary.

```
manifest.json
img/small_icon.png
img/desktop_icon.png
README.md
readme.txt
FloatWindow.php
embedded.php
```

Tips: The filenames are case sensitive.

Here are the uses of each file explained one by one.

<table class="ts table">
  <tr>
    <th>Filename<br></th>
    <th>What is it?</th>
    <th>How it will be used?</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>index.php</td>
    <td>Main page when an module launch</td>
    <td>Launching module from Grid Index will be redirected to this script</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>description.txt</td>
    <td>A file that store a short text stating the use of this module</td>
    <td>Description that shows on Grid Menu and Desktop</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>img/function_icon.png</td>
    <td>A png image file with 512 x 512 px resolution</td>
    <td>Use as Grid Menu launch icons, desktop icon or list menu icon if small icons are not found</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>manifest.json</td>
    <td>A json file for PWA requirement</td>
    <td>Use for supporting ArOZ PWA for mobile devices</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>img/small_icon.png</td>
    <td>A png image file with 64 x 64px resolution</td>
    <td>Small icons used in List Menu</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>img/desktop_icon.png</td>
    <td>A png image file with 128 x 128px resolution</td>
    <td>Icon used for Desktop shortcut, usually with rounded corner app icon designs</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>README.md / readme.txt</td>
    <td>README.md and readme.txt is the readme file for your module</td>
    <td>README.md is the readme file for Git Services while readme.txt&nbsp;&nbsp;is the readme file for the Help Module</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>FloatWindow.php<br></td>
    <td>PHP script for launching current module custom floatWindow settings</td>
    <td>Launching ArOZ Module on desktop</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>embedded.php</td>
    <td>PHP script for opening a custom file format with given parameters "filename" and "filepath"</td>
    <td>Launching any files from Desktop module or File Explorer &gt; Open With functions.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Great! Your project folder structure is now ready. Continue the tutorial and learn how to program your WebApp Module for ArOZ Online System!

