["Introduction"]

## Introduction

### Aim and Objective of the project

Many off-the-shelf cloud services and infrastructure are only designed for commercial or business purposes. When it comes to non-profiting oriented or general purposes cloud platforms, there are only limited choices for easy plug &amp; play development.

The beta phrase of this project aims to provide a low cost, personal and private cloud architecture in both software and hardware aspects that is distributed with high scalability and reliability for deploying critical systems.

In the 1.0 version of this system, the system architecture is being redesigned to fit more general purpose cloud computing, including quick system deployment, service binding and allowing general users to engage in cloud computing technology through a user friendly, web desktop interface.

### Naming Scheme

#### Stage Naming

ArOZ Online System (Originally named Automated Remote Operating Zigzagger, which Zigzagger implies stitching things together in a good way) was a platform that is designed to store multimedia files with an external hard disk on Raspberry Pi Model B, providing &quot;media center&quot; like experience to users and allows for media consumption in local area network environment. Later, more and more cloud related functions are added into the system for better enhancing the usability of the system including but not limited to web desktop environment, cluster setups and communication pipelines, distributed file systems and in system programmable modules. These modules and subsystems add more functionality to the cloud platform.

The Beta system (ArOZ Online Beta) is a system that provides all of the functions mentioned above and delivers a web-desktop-like environment by bridging to the underlying Linux file system. Providing a powerful cloud desktop environment for users to be used with any mobile or desktop devices without the constraints of a designated terminal device(s) like personal smartphones or laptops.

The 1.0 version (arozos) is a system that is completely rewritten based on the Beta phrase requirement discovery process. Most of the well known functions on the beta are being rewritten into a more efficiency algorithm with Go instead of PHP. Providing much more performance boost out of linux SBCs like the Raspberry Pis without the need for upgrading the hardware.

#### Version Naming

The version system of the ArOZ Series software is as follows.

| Version Name | Development Date | Systems (Language) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ArOZ (Alpha) | Early 2014 | Windows 7 (VB.net) |
| ArOZ Beta | Late 2014 | Windows 7 (VB.net) |
| ArOZ Omega | Early 2015 | Windows 7(VB.net) |
| ArOZ Online Alpha | Late 2015 - Early 2016 | Windows 7 (WAMP + PHP 5) |
| ArOZ Online Beta | 2016 - 2020 | Windows / Linux (Apache + PHP 7) |
| ArOZ OS | 2020 - Now | Windows / Linux / Mac OS (Go 1.14+) |

### System Usage

ArOZ Online System can be run on a portable device, miniature NAS system or server grade computers. Hence, the system will suit the needs for many different usages, including portable workstation, media conversion or consumption, data backups and restore etc.

The arozos provides even more general purpose for business sector, including fully featured authentication system, user permission and grouping systems, internal reverse proxy services and storage pool management. Allowing the system to be used in deploying web platforms that requires user management as well as user permission management.

Modular WebApp system design also strengthened the permission system and allowed more secure cloud computing process and web services.

## Terminology

In this documentation, the following terminology will be used to describe the content and functions provided in this system.

| Term | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| Arozos / ArOZ OS | The cloud system that is being discussed in this document. |
| WebApps | Web application that is installed on the arozos as a folder in the /web directory. |
| Subservice | Web application that is installed on the arozos as a separated binary located in its folder under /subservice directory. |
| Web Desktop Interface / VDI mode | Virtual Desktop Interface (Mode). The mode where the user is interacting with the arozos through its web based desktop user interface. |
| List Menu | The application startup menu that used to start an application on both VDI and mobile interface |
| FloatWindow (fw) | Window-like iframe that is located on the web based desktop interface that the user can drag, resize and hide. |
| Functio(nal) Bar | The bottom bar of the web desktop interface that used to display the web app opened by the user OR The sidebar of the mobile desktop mode where the webapp opened by the user will be shown. |
| Status Bar | The top bar on the web desktop interface that is used to show the hostname, current date time and a content button for showing shortcuts. |
| Arozfs / aroz virtual file system | The virtualized file system that is emulated by arozos. |