["Installation Guide"]

## Installation
### For Raspberry Pi (For Raspberry Pi 4B+)

If you are using Raspberry Pi as your host, you can download one of the images and flash the image into your SD card. You will find a new network device named "ArozOS (ARxxx)" pop up in your "Network Neighbourhood". 
Double click the icon and you will be redirect to the system Web setup interface.

You can find the links of the image in the README file of the Github repo.

[https://github.com/tobychui/arozos](https://github.com/tobychui/arozos)



To optain the .img file, you can unzip the compressed image using 7zip. If you don't have it, you can get it here

### For other ARM SBC (e.g. Orange Pi / Banana Pi / Friendly ARM's Pis)

Download the correct architecture binary from the "release" tab and upload the binary with the "web" and "system" folder in "/src". After upload, you should have the following file structure

```
$ ls
aroz_online_linux_arm64  web  system
```

Start the binary by calling sudo ./aroz_online_linux_arm64 (or without sudo if you prefer no hardware management)

### For PC with x64 (amd64) CPU

Install Debian Buster on your PC and download the binary ``` arozos_linux_amd64``` with the web and system folder. You will see something like this everything is downloaded.

```
$ ls
arozos_linux_amd64  web  syste
```

Start the binary with ./arozos_linux_amd64

## Build From Source

### Linux (Debian) / Darwin (MacOS)

To build from source, install Git and Go and follow the instructions below.

```
git clone https://github.com/tobychui/arozos arozos
cd ./arozos/src
go build
```

#### Required Linux Packages

The ArozOS will require these extra packages to function normally.

1. fmpeg

2. wpa_supplicant (or nmcli), if you have wlan interface(s)

### Windows

If you are deploying on Windows, you need to add ffmpeg to %PATH% environment variable.

This system can be built and run on Windows hosts with the following build instructions

```
# Download the whole repo as zip and cd into it
cd .\arozos\src\
go build
arozos.exe
```

However, not all features are available for Windows (e.g. WiFi / Samba)

#### Cross Compile

If you want to build the ArozOS system for your Raspberry Pi (or other Linux environment) without installing Go in that environment, you can build the ArozOS with cross compile mode on Windows and move the binary and the required system files to the Linux environment.



To cross compile ArozOS on different Linux platforms, you can use the commands below

```
:: For armv6 /armv6l, e.g. Raspberry Pi 1, Raspberry Pi Zero (w)
set GOOS=linux 
set GOARCH=arm 
set GOARM=6 
go build

:: For armv7, e.g. Raspberry Pi 4
set GOOS=linux 
set GOARCH=arm 
set GOARM=7 
go build

:: For arm64, e.g. Orange Pi Zero Plus (Allwinner H5), Orange Pi Zero 2 (Allwinner H616)
set GOOS=linux 
set GOARCH=arm64 
go build

:: For amd64, e.g. Intel / AMD CPU PC
set GOOS=linux 
set GOARCH=amd64 
go build

```

### Mac 

This system is **not officially** support MacOS. However, just in case you want to test it out on Mac, you can try the cross compile method on Windows and move the binary files to MacOS

#### Build on Mac Natively

```
go build
```

#### Build on Windows with Cross Compile

```
set GOOS=darwin 
set GOARCH=amd64 
go build
```

#### Build on Linux with Cross Compile

```
GOOS=darwin GOARCH=amd64 go build
```

